you can read the technica.text files in each of the source directorties
for general information on how the various programs work, how the source
modules are organized, and so forth.

This file describes the build process and the subtrees the source files
are in.

In each directory there are several makefiles; three of them are of 
direct interest.

MAKEFILE.B32 is the make file for building the tool with Borland C Version
4.5.  I used this extensively in debugging the package.

MAKEFILE.OMF is the make file to use for building the WIN32 version of
the tool with the toolchain itself.  The toolchain must be on the path.

MAKEFILE.DOS is the make file to use for building the DOS version of the
tool with the toolchain (using tran's pmode).

MAKEFILE.lx is the make file to use for building the DOS version of the
tool with the toolchain (using DOS32A).

In this, the root directory for the source code are three corresponding
make files.

B32.MAK is a global make file which will make ALL the tools with borland C
4.5 and put them into a directory '\tools\bin\win32'.

WIN.MAK is a global make file which will make the win32 version of
ALL the tools with the tools themselves.

DOS.MAK is a global make file which will make the DOS version of ALL the
tools with the tools themselves.

The makefiles in the source directories use a file 'upbuild.exe'.  This
increments the compile number of each EXE file in VERSION.H, which is then
imported as part of the build for the tool.  I use this as a sanity check
so I know what version of things I am running.  This is disabled when
one of the global make files is being run through use of the FULLBUILD
flag.

Following is a description of the directory tree

directory   program
-------------------------------------------
include     include (.h) files for cc386 compiler
source      source (.C) files for cc386 compiler
object      directory object/make files for the CC386 compiler are in
cl_51       source for CL386 command line wrapper
mk_49       source for MK386 make file generator
mkliblst    source for mkliblst: used to combine object file names into
            a declaration file for use with the librarian
itouch      source for a simple touch utility
valx        source for the VALX linker
XLIB        source for the XLIB librarian
XRC         source for the XRC resource compiler
grep        source for the grep program
imake       source for the imake make utility
nasm9825    source for the NASM assembler
CCIDE       source for the IDE
brc         source for the browse compiler (used only by the IDE)
import      source for the import librarian
gnu_regex   source for the regular expression dll